#Frequency tables
The value_counts method can be used to determine the number of times that each distinct value of a variable occurs in a data set. In statistical terms, this is the "frequency distribution" of the variable. Below we show the frequency distribution of the DMDEDUC2 variable, which is a variable that reflects a person's level of educational attainment. The value_counts method produces a table with two columns. The first column contains all distinct observed values for the variable. The second column contains the number of times each of these values occurs. Note that the table returned by value_counts is actually a Pandas data frame, so can be further processed using any Pandas methods for working with data frames.

The numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 seen below are integer codes for the 6 possible non-missing values of the DMDEDUC2 variable. The meaning of these codes is given in the NHANES codebook located here, and will be discussed further below. This table shows, for example, that 1621 people in the data file have DMDEDUC=4, which indicates that the person has completed some college, but has not graduated with a four-year degree.

**Note** that the value_counts method excludes missing values. We confirm this below by adding up the number of observations with a DMDEDUC2 value equal to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 9 (there are 5474 such rows), and comparing this to the total number of rows in the data set, which is 5735. This tells us that there are 5735 - 5474 = 261 missing values for this variable (other variables may have different numbers of missing values).